Pizza – who can name someone that does not enjoy pizza?  Now has become a universal food loved by all!  There are so many variations of pizza.  There are a number of recipes for pizza dough, sauce, and toppings.  I like to make all my pizzas from scratch.  There’s nothing better than biting into that first slice of fresh, hot, homemade pizza.

Recipe will make 2 and will serve 4.

Prep time: 20 mins

Cooking time: 30 mins

 Homemade Pizza Recipe by ManjulaIngredients:

for Dough

2-1/2 cup all-purpose flour (plain flour, maida)
1/2 teaspoon sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1-1/2 tablespoons dry yeast
3 tablespoons olive oil preferred,
Approx. 1 cup lukewarm water, 110 degree F
About 2 tablespoons of all-purpose flour for rolling
for Sauce

3 cups crushed tomatoes
2 tablespoons olive oil preferred
1 teaspoons Italian herbs
1 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons sugar
1/8 teaspoon black pepper
¼ teaspoon chili flake
2 teaspoons corn starch 
for Topping

2 cups shredded mozzarella cheese
1 cup sliced bell pepper in small pieces (capsicum, Shimla mirch)
1 cup sliced mushrooms
Method

for Dough

Add the yeast to lukewarm water and set it aside for about 5 minutes, mix it well making sure yeast has dissolved.
Combine flour, sugar, salt and oil and mix. I am using food processer with dough blade to make dough. Note: for pizza dough should be knead well, you can use standing mixer with a dough attachment, or make the dough by hand.
Add yeast water run the food processor for 4-5 minutes, stopping every minute for few seconds. Make sure dough is very soft but not sticky if needed add more water or if it is too sticky add little more flour. When dough is ready add 1 tablespoon of oil and run the food processor for about half a minute more.
Take out the dough over floured surface and knead the dough until smooth and elastic will take about 3-4 minutes.
Grease large bowl with oil, and oil the dough all around lightly, cover the bowl. Set aside the dough in a warm area, for about two hours, dough should be double in size.
Knead the dough again over lightly floured surface and divide the dough into 2 equal parts. And let them rest for 3-4 minutes, before rolling. 
Making the sauce

Add oil into a pan over medium high heat. Add Italian herbs, black pepper, and chili flakes stir for few seconds add tomatoes, salt and sugar. Cook until tomatoes have become mushy and most of the water from tomatoes has evaporated. Mix the corn starch with 2 tablespoons of water and add to the tomatoes. Reduce the heat to low stir the sauce for few minutes until sauce becomes the consistency of soft batter. If tomatoes are too sour use little more sugar. Set aside.
Preparing the Pizza

Preheat the oven a4 425 degree F (225 Celsius).
Grease the pizza pan, I am using 14 inch pan.
Lightly flour roll into a 13 inch circle. Transferred to greased 12-in. pizza pan; build up edges slightly. Lightly greased the rolled dough, this helps making the pizza crisp.
Spoon a few tablespoons of sauce into the center of the pizza and use the back of a spoon to spread it out to within one inch of edges. Spread your toppings bell pepper, mushrooms, sprinkle the cheese.
Bake for 15 to 18 minutes depend on the oven, until the golden brown.
Slice and serve. 
Also check the recipe for pasta  Butternut squash Pasta, Creamy Spinach Pasta

Suggestions

When you make pizza and crust comes out soggy every time, did not cook well and you don’t know what you are doing wrong!  For that bake the pizza before adding any topping or sauce at 375° for about 10 minutes or until lightly browned. Spread sauce and topping bake again for about 10 minutes or until pizza is done.

